Puf/cloud functions testing (#313)
FlutterFlow/flutterflow-documentation: docs/ff-concepts/adding-customization/cloud-functions.md

<div class="video-container"><iframe src="https://www.loom.
com/embed/0c4306c1951a4d9099aa96324c7561af?sid=69709110-ad60-4e98-bf53-36a50a99e425" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

> ## Testing Cloud Functions by sending push notifications without writing to Firestore

Reviewer: That is a very long heading! I meant to keep just "Testing Cloud Functions" because its relevant to all Functions, using PNs as an example thoughn

<div class="video-container"><iframe src="https://www.loom.
com/embed/0c4306c1951a4d9099aa96324c7561af?sid=69709110-ad60-4e98-bf53-36a50a99e425" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

## Testing Cloud Functions

> ### How can I test sending push notifications without writing to Firestore?

Reviewer: Another header won't be required. So we can remove this.

Author: This title is more content-bearing than the one above. If we want to remove either, I'd probably remove the "Testing Cloud Functions" one.

I'll update this one to be in the correct format (it's a question, because I initially wrote this as an FAQ item).

> ### How can I test sending push notifications without writing to Firestore?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The Google Cloud console has built-in functionality to allow you to trigger a Cloud Function for testing. This means that after deploying Cloud Functions, you can test them without writing to Firestore (either from FlutterFlow or otherwise).

Here's how to test FlutterFlow's `sendUserPushNotificationsTrigger` function in the Google Cloud console:

1. Open your browser and navigate to the following URL:
`https://console.cloud.google.com/functions/details/us-central1/sendUserPushNotificationsTrigger?env=gen1&project=<projectID>&tab=testing`
\
  In here:
   - Replace `<projectID>` with your GCP or Firebase project.

>    - If you want to test a different Cloud Function, update `sendUserPushNotificationsTrigger` too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If you want to test a different Cloud Function, update `sendUserPushNotificationsTrigger` with the relevant cloud function name.
```

            "fields": {
                "scheduled_time": { "stringValue": "" },
                "initial_page_name": { "stringValue": "" },
                "notification_title": { "stringValue": "Your friends are missing you!" },
                "notification_text": { "stringValue": "Please come back to Nanochat" },
                "user_refs": { "stringValue": "users/VXu6EvFMl5M8KMXriYRvFEWTFHA2" }
            }
        }
    }
    ```
3. In the `name` property:
  * Replace `<projectID>` with your GCP or Firebase project.
  * Replace `<documentID>` with the ID of the document. This document must already exist in Firestore.
  * If you're testing another function than `sendUserPushNotificationsTrigger`, update `ff_user_push_notifications` with the collection where the document is written.
4. Update the values under the `fields` property for the message you want to send.
\
The `fields` in the example above are for FlutterFlow's built-in `sendUserPushNotificationsTrigger` function. If you're testing a different Cloud Function, you will need to update the `fields` for the code in *that* function.

> 5. Click the <kbd>TEST THE FUNCTION</kbd> button.

Reviewer: Learnt something new today! 🥳

Reviewer: I meant the <kbd> tags, had no idea about it haha!

Author: Display depends on the environment of course. Stack Overflow shows it a bit more button-like than inline code, which I like for menu items, tab titles, etc.
